

#Project 3: Sprint Review and Retrospective

Nyzheir Warner
Southern New Hampshire University
CS-250-16319-M01 Software Development Lifecycle
Derek Jacobs
December 15, 2024
 
##Part 1: Applying Roles
	The roles that make up an agile scrum team are Product Owner, Scrum Master, and Developers. In the role of a Product Owner, engaging with users and stakeholders is a key part of ensuring that the product meets both user’s needs and business objectives. Through regular communication we can gain valuable insight that helps in prioritizing features and functionalities. When directly involving stakeholders, you are able to grasp a better understanding of their expectations, pain points, and how they interact with the product. This feedback helps teams avoid building unnecessary features and ensures the product aligns with the user’s real-world needs. As mentioned, one of the main responsibilities of the Product Owner is communicating with stakeholders. We can see an example of this in one of our scrum agile animations where product owner Christy increases the priority of certain tasks in order to satisfy the desires of stakeholders while deprioritizing other tasks to maintain the same time frame for the sprint goal following proper agile practices. 
	In the role of Scrum Master, the goal is to help facilitate the Scrum process and ensure that the entire team understands and adheres to the Scrum methodology. The Scrum methodology consists of a couple of key events that help structure the work in a way that ensures collaboration, transparency and continuous improvement in the project. Scrum events include Sprint Planning, Daily Scrum, Backlog Refinement, Sprint Review, and Sprint Retrospective. The following is how I would implement and execute these scrum events. An example of the scrum master fulfilling their duties can be seen in one of the scrum agile team animations where the scrum master Ron asks the question “Do we still have the same schedule or are we moving the deadlines back to accommodate this major shift in content?” in order to steer the team in the right direction as a team.
	The Developer role in a scrum team consists of any position on that isn’t the Product Owner or the Scrum Master. The main goal of roles within this group is to transform user stories into tangible features. requires a deep understanding of the users’ stories, their acceptance criteria and collaborations with the product owner.  For example, in one of the scrum agile team animations there is a change in requirements where the development team needs to change the current type of offered vacation to one pertaining to detox/wellness vacations in order to fulfill the desires of the steak-holders new user story. Each of these roles must communicate and cooperate in order to become an effective and efficient scrum team. Although we focused on the core responsibility of each role everyone in the team is expected to chip in on most parts of the Scrum Methodology including Sprint Planning and Scrum Events like standup Meetings and Sprint Retrospectives.

##Part 2: Completing User Stories
	User stories play a crucial role in helping the team focus on delivering valuable increments of the product. They provide a simple and clear description of a feature or functionality from the user's perspective. User stories help break down large, complex features into manageable tasks. This makes it easier for the Scrum Team to understand and implement them. Each story follows the "As a [user], I want [feature] so that [benefit]" format, ensuring that the team keeps the end users needs in the spotlight. This approach to user feedback facilitates collaboration, prioritization, and tracking progress toward the overall product end goal. In addition to interviews and user meetings, other methods for collecting feedback are also essential in the process of building user stories. Surveys and questionnaires, for example, can be distributed to a broader audience, enabling you to gather quantitative data on user preferences and pain points. Analytics tools can help track user behavior using the gather data. Providing insights into how the user interacts with the product. Prototyping and having actual end-users test the product also offer valuable feedback by allowing them to interact with early versions of features and suggest improvements before they reach the final build. For example, in one of the scrum-agile team animations after gathering intel about the users the team was able to effectively pinpoint the users’ desires and thus changed the current booking to offer wellness/detox vacations instead of pervious offers.  All of these techniques and methods are used in order to fulfill the users’ wishes through their user stories providing an application that meets the wants and needs of as many users as possible. 

##Part 3: Handling Interruptions and Communication
	Agile methods allow teams to adapt quickly to changes, whether it's customer needs, market conditions or contingencies. Short cycles offer great flexibility to adjust priorities and plans. Again, an example of where this comes into play can be seen in one of our scrum-agile team animations. In this animation it is brought to the team’s attention that stakeholders and users seem to desire more wellness and detox vacations due to the time of year. Initially due to this rapid change one of the developers Nicole is concerned saying, “What?! Are you saying that everything we’ve done to this point needs to be scrapped?”. Normally this would be a problem but since we are working inside the Agile framework the product owner Christy replies, “Since this is agile, we want to keep to the same dates. I will deprioritize other stories in the Product Backlog so that we can focus on this product. What can we get done in the time we have left?”. This example details how one would be able to handle any sudden interruptions while working inside the Agile-Scrum framework and displaying effective communication. 

##Part 4: Organizational Tools
	Sprint planning is the first event in each sprint in this step the team come together to determine what work will be done during the current sprint and how we should complete it. During this step the Scrum master’s job is to facilitate the meeting by reviewing the product backlog with the product owner where they discuss priorities and ensure the team understands the scope of the sprint. This has the benefit of making sure everyone is aligned with the goal and understands the objective of the current sprint. 
Next is the daily scrum, the daily scrum is a short ~15-minute meeting where the team meets to discuss progress, challenges and the plan for the day. This has the benefit of fostering communication and transparency throughout the team. Backlog refinement is an important continuous process where the product backlog is reviewed and adjusted according to the project’s current standing and needs. This event has the benefit of ensuring that the team is always working on the most valuable task for the project and that the items to be worked on are well-defined and ready for a sprint. The sprint review is held at the end of each sprint in order to review the work that was completed and to gather feedback from stakeholders. The benefit of sprint reviews is that is allowed the opportunity for the opportunity to showcase their work as well as obtain valuable feedback from the product owner and stakeholders. The sprint retrospective is an event where the team reflects on the sprint to identify opportunities for improvement. Facilitating an open and safe environment for the team to discuss what went well and what things we could improve for future sprints. This has the benefit of fostering a culture of continuous improvement and open discussion. 
Overall, the Scrum process fosters a culture of continuous improvement, transparency, and collaboration. When a team adheres to the scrum methodology it enables the team to stay focused on delivering high value outcomes. It also trains the team to be able to quickly adapt to changes or obstacles that arise during the development process. To ensure that the team meets the goals of these events we must maintain a clear line of communication and emphasize the importance of each event.

##Part 5: Evaluating Agile Process
	I believe that the Agile-Scrum approach to development was the correct choice for SNHU Travel given the nature of their business. The travel industry is considered to be very volatile it often experiences drastic changes in demand and prices due to factors like economic conditions, global events, and natural disasters, making this a risky sector to operate within. This being the case Agile-Scrum methodologies best complement the nature of the industry, allowing teams and companies to adapt very quickly to said changes in demand. Short sprints allow changes based on feedback to happen a lot more easily because of the flexibility provided. Additionally, scrum ensures time and money are being spent effectively by reviewing sprints at the end of each cycle. Although scrum has many of these great benefits, especially when talking withing the context of SNHU Travel, the change of project failure is higher if individual team members are not very committed or cooperative. Also note if any team members leave in the middle of a project, it can have a huge negative impact on the project. Now that we have some of the positive and negatives of the agile framework in the context of SNHU Travel Business I still hold the belief that Scrum was the correct choice for SNHU Travel in developing and shipping projects.  
